# Gulp, Grunt, automation

## Organize your css
Header.css
Footer.css
Banner.css

Why Node, why npm??
Package Management
Normalize.css

Node:  Hey Javascript, do you want to grow up and wear your big-boy pants?
JS:  Yeah.  Yeah, I'd like that.

## Goal: generate an HTML file, automatically
Leverage the Node filesystem module FS

<15: NPM>
Old Evan way:  google the address of bootstrap, paste it in, repeat
Newer NPM way: set up a list of what packages you need.  And now comes A-PACKAGE-MANAGER, a robot that hears your shopping list ('some kinda Bootstrap, some kinda normalize.css') and manages what to plug in there.  It gets server stuff too.

The NPM grocery list for modules is JSON, not lock.
The LOCK is auto generated by ___ & ___ for you.  Lock is intended to escort your repository wherever it goes.
LOCK is a noun, not a verb.  

"1.3.7" versus "^1.3.7" in your npmmodule PACKAGE
Load this exact one.     Load this or newer one.

The Udemy course gives you a pre-written package.json.   You therefore get all the same versions as him.  

<GULP>
Task Runner = Gulp
Build Tool = Gulp

Make a gulpfile.js.    Start putting in var gulp = require('gulp.');   gulp.task('default', function()={hey});
Later, at the CLI: gulp default
	some example code from the gulpfile.js
----------------------------------
GENERIC
gulp.task('default', function(){console.log`yipee yahoo wow.`});
gulp.task('html',  ()=>{console.log("Rent the tandem..");});
gulp.task('watch', function() {
	watch('./index.html', ()=>{
		gulp.start('html');
----------------------------------
REAL, FROM COURSE
let gulp = require('gulp'), watch = require('gulp-watch');
gulp.task('default', function(){console.log`yipee yahoo wow.`});
gulp.task('html',  ()=>{console.log("Rent the tandem..");});
gulp.task('styles',  ()=>{
	console.log("Imagine STYLE tasks running here.");
	return gulp.src('assets/styles/styles.css').pipe(gulp.dest('temp/styles/styles.css'));
	;
	// see Udemy 4--12 or tutorialNotes
});
------------------------------------


gulp.task('watch', function() {
	watch('./index.html', ()=>{
		gulp.start('html');
	});
	watch('./styles/**/*.css', ()=>{gulp.start('styles')}
});

<CSS WORKFLOWS   (4 -- 12)>
How to go into your gulpfile.css and tell it to process stuff for you.  You want to tell it to vacuum up and then spit out.  
----------------------------------
1.  gulp.src();
2.  gulp.dest();
3.  pipe();
----------------------------------

How to chain a pipe in Gulp.  
This pipe will have a watcher, that watches my .css, and every time a save is detected, it will feed the whole .css through my chain of pipes, possibly babeling it, out to a temp.out.
----------------------------------
gulp.task('styles',  ()=>{
	console.log("Imagine STYLE tasks running here.");
	return gulp.src('./styles/figFlood.css').pipe(gulp.dest('./styles/temp.css'));
	;
	// see Udemy 4--12 or tutorialNotes
}
----------------------------------

How to get a GULP-POSTCSS in your pipe.   
This will tweek your css every time you hit save.
Gulp has an event-watcher that you set to run the pipe whenever the file it's watching gets changed.
* npm install gulp-postcss --save-dev
* in gulpfile, postcss = require('gulp-postcss')
* in gulpfile, autoprefixer = require('gulp-autoprefixer')
* in your pipes...
	gulp.task('styles', x)

	where x is
	function(){
	return gulp.src('./app/assets/styles/fig.css')
	.pipe()
	.pipe()
	.pipe()
	}

	and where the last pipe is the destination.
	.pipe(gulp.dest('./app/temp/bettercss/fig2.css'))

	-------------------------------------

	How to put into a pipe AUTOPREFIXER, WITH ITS EXPECTED ARGUMENT, AN ARRAY
	.pipe(postcss([autoprefixer]))
		WHERE
	var autoprefixer = require('autoprefixer') NOTAGULPNAME
		AND 
	npm install autoprexier --save-dev
	ALREADY HAPPENED UP TOP

	-------------------------------------

	How to re-start all of this:
	`gulp watch
`
	-------------------------------------

Alsoadded in postcss-simple-vars.
// Allows dollarsign variables for colors, et al

-------------------------------------

How to put nested css in there
Nested CSS is not allowed in actual css.
It is a class, with a list of selectors under it.
Look it up if you ever need it.

--------------------------------------

`
When you find that you're the ladder
Don't let those people walk under you
`
"""
	At some point https://www.verythorough.com/
	and a http://www.bengreenberg.org/portfolio
"""
1 reinstall sublime
2 run vim
3 start course half hour lecture
